readme.md, before:

# Botkit: A Framework for Building Discord Bots with py-cord

## What is Botkit?

Botkit is a framework for building Discord bots. It is designed to simplify the process of creating and managing Discord bots by providing a modular architecture and a set of tools and utilities.

## What Botkit is NOT

Botkit is not a pre-built Discord bot. Instead, it is a starting point for building your own custom Discord bot. You are expected to edit and modify the provided code to suit your specific requirements.

## Features

- **Modular Design**: The bot is designed with a modular architecture, allowing you to easily enable or disable specific extensions or features.
- **Extensible**: The bot supports two types of extensions:
  - **Default Extensions**: These are built-in extensions located in the `src/extensions` directory, such as the `ping` extension for a simple ping command.
  - **Installable Python Modules**: You can install and use external Python modules as extensions for the bot.
- **Configurable**: The bot's configuration, including enabled extensions and bot token, is managed through a `config.yml` file.
- **Easy Setup**: Botkit simplifies the setup process by providing a well-structured project template and configuration management.

## Requirements

- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) - A modern Python packaging and dependency management tool.
- Python 3.11 or later.
- A Discord bot token. You can create a new bot and obtain a token from the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications).

## Installation

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the project directory.
2. Install the required dependencies using Poetry:

```
poetry install
```

## Setup

1. Set up the `config.yml` file with your bot token and desired extensions. Here's an example configuration:

```yaml
extensions:
  topgg:
    enabled: false
    token: "your_top.gg_token"
  ping:
    enabled: true
bot:
  token: "your_bot_token"
logging:
  level: INFO
```

## Default Extensions

### Ping Extension

The `ping` extension adds a slash command (`/ping`) to the bot. When a user types `/ping`, the bot will respond with `Pong!`. This extension demonstrates how to set up and register slash commands with py-cord.

### Top.gg Extension

The `topgg` extension is designed for bots listed on [top.gg](https://top.gg). When enabled, it automatically posts the bot's server count, shard count, and other stats to the top.gg API.

## Adding Extensions

### Built-in Extensions

Built-in extensions are located in the `src/extensions` directory. To enable a built-in extension, set `enabled: true` in the corresponding section of the `config.yml` file. By default, priority is given to built-in extensions over external Python modules.

### Python Module Extensions

To add a Python module as an extension, install it using Poetry (`poetry add <module_name>`), and then set it up in the `config.yml` file under the `extensions` section.

Each extension must export a `setup` function with the following signature:

```python
def setup(bot: discord.Bot, logger: logging.Logger, config: dict):
    # Extension setup code here
```

- `bot`: The Discord bot instance.
- `logger`: A logger instance for logging messages.
- `config`: The configuration dictionary for the extension from the `config.yml` file.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to this project! Please follow the [gitmoji.dev](https://gitmoji.dev) convention for commit messages and submit pull requests with descriptive commit messages.

## Built With

- [py-cord](https://github.com/Pycord-Development/pycord)
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org)

## Code Style and Linting

This project follows the [PEP 8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) style guide for Python code. We recommend using a linter like [black](https://github.com/psf/black) to ensure your code adheres to the style guidelines.

## Deployment

Botkit is designed to be deployed on various platforms, including cloud services like [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/) or [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/). Refer to the documentation of your preferred hosting platform for deployment instructions.

## Support and Resources

If you encounter any issues or have questions about Botkit, feel free to open an issue on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nicebots-xyz/botkit). You can also join the [official Discord server](https://paill.at/OjTuQ) for support and discussions.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

Commit message:

:sparkles: Add support for env variables

readme.md, after:

# Botkit: A Framework for Building Discord Bots with py-cord

## What is Botkit?

Botkit is a framework for building Discord bots. It is designed to simplify the process of creating and managing Discord bots by providing a modular architecture and a set of tools and utilities.

## What Botkit is NOT

Botkit is not a pre-built Discord bot. Instead, it is a starting point for building your own custom Discord bot. You are expected to edit and modify the provided code to suit your specific requirements.

## Features

- **Modular Design**: The bot is designed with a modular architecture, allowing you to easily enable or disable specific extensions or features.
- **Extensible**: The bot supports two types of extensions:
  - **Default Extensions**: These are built-in extensions located in the `src/extensions` directory, such as the `ping` extension for a simple ping command.
  - **Installable Python Modules**: You can install and use external Python modules as extensions for the bot.
- **Configurable**: The bot's configuration, including enabled extensions and bot token, is managed through a `config.yml` file.
- **Easy Setup**: Botkit simplifies the setup process by providing a well-structured project template and configuration management.

## Requirements

- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/) - A modern Python packaging and dependency management tool.
- Python 3.11 or later.
- A Discord bot token. You can create a new bot and obtain a token from the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications).

## Installation

1. Clone the repository and navigate to the project directory.
2. Install the required dependencies using Poetry:

```
poetry install
```

## Setup

### Yaml Configuration
You can set up the `config.yml` file with your bot token and desired extensions. Here's an example configuration:

```yaml
extensions:
  topgg:
    enabled: false
    token: "your_top.gg_token"
  ping:
    enabled: true
bot:
  token: "your_bot_token"
logging:
  level: INFO
```

### Environment Variables
Alternatively, you can set the bot token and other configuration options using environment variables. You can set any variable as you would in the `config.yml` file, but with the `BOTKIT__` prefix, and `__` to separate nested keys. To set lists, use regular json syntax.
```env
BOTKIT__bot__token=your_bot_token
BOTKIT__extensions__topgg__enabled=false
BOTKIT__extensions__ping__enabled=true
BOTKIT__logging__level=INFO
```

## Default Extensions

### Ping Extension

The `ping` extension adds a slash command (`/ping`) to the bot. When a user types `/ping`, the bot will respond with `Pong!`. This extension demonstrates how to set up and register slash commands with py-cord.

### Top.gg Extension

The `topgg` extension is designed for bots listed on [top.gg](https://top.gg). When enabled, it automatically posts the bot's server count, shard count, and other stats to the top.gg API.

## Adding Extensions

### Built-in Extensions

Built-in extensions are located in the `src/extensions` directory. To enable a built-in extension, set `enabled: true` in the corresponding section of the `config.yml` file. By default, priority is given to built-in extensions over external Python modules.

### Python Module Extensions

To add a Python module as an extension, install it using Poetry (`poetry add <module_name>`), and then set it up in the `config.yml` file under the `extensions` section.

Each extension must export a `setup` function with the following signature:

```python
def setup(bot: discord.Bot, logger: logging.Logger, config: dict):
    # Extension setup code here
```

- `bot`: The Discord bot instance.
- `logger`: A logger instance for logging messages.
- `config`: The configuration dictionary for the extension from the `config.yml` file. All config keys will always be lowercased for compatibility with environment variables.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to this project! Please follow the [gitmoji.dev](https://gitmoji.dev) convention for commit messages and submit pull requests with descriptive commit messages.

## Built With

- [py-cord](https://github.com/Pycord-Development/pycord)
- [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org)

## Code Style and Linting

This project follows the [PEP 8](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) style guide for Python code. We recommend using a linter like [black](https://github.com/psf/black) to ensure your code adheres to the style guidelines.

## Deployment

Botkit is designed to be deployed on various platforms, including cloud services like [Heroku](https://www.heroku.com/) or [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/). Refer to the documentation of your preferred hosting platform for deployment instructions.

## Support and Resources

If you encounter any issues or have questions about Botkit, feel free to open an issue on the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/nicebots-xyz/botkit). You can also join the [official Discord server](https://paill.at/OjTuQ) for support and discussions.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).
